README.md, before:

# wxDragon - Cross-Platform Native GUI for Rust

**wxDragon** brings the power of wxWidgets to Rust, enabling you to build beautiful, native desktop applications that run seamlessly across Windows, macOS, and Linux. With wxDragon, your applications will look and feel native on every platform while maintaining a single Rust codebase.

## Why Choose wxDragon?

🎯 **Native Look & Feel** - Your apps integrate perfectly with each operating system's design language  
🚀 **Single Codebase** - Write once, run everywhere with true cross-platform compatibility  
🛡️ **Memory Safe** - All the safety guarantees of Rust with the mature wxWidgets foundation  
⚡ **High Performance** - Direct access to native GUI components with minimal overhead  
🎨 **Rich Widget Set** - Comprehensive collection of native controls and layouts  
🔧 **Two Development Styles** - Choose between programmatic creation or visual XRC design

## Screenshots

![Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AllenDang/wxDragon/refs/heads/main/asset/screenshot.png)

![CustomWidgets](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AllenDang/wxDragon/refs/heads/main/asset/custom_widget.gif)

## Quick Start

Add wxDragon to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
wxdragon = "*"
```

### Simple Example

```rust
use wxdragon::prelude::*;

fn main() {
    wxdragon::main(|_| {
        let frame = Frame::builder()
            .with_title("Hello, World!")
            .with_size(Size::new(300, 200))
            .build();

        let sizer = BoxSizer::builder(Orientation::Vertical).build();

        let button = Button::builder(&frame).with_label("Click me").build();

        button.on_click(|_| {
            println!("Button clicked");
        });

        sizer.add(
            &button,
            1,
            SizerFlag::AlignCenterHorizontal | SizerFlag::AlignCenterVertical,
            0,
        );

        frame.set_sizer(sizer, true);
        frame.show(true);
        frame.centre();
    });
}
```

## Visual UI Design with XRC

For complex interfaces, wxDragon supports XRC (XML Resource) files with compile-time type safety. Design your UI visually with tools like [wxFormBuilder](https://github.com/wxFormBuilder/wxFormBuilder), then load it seamlessly into Rust.

**1. Design your UI (`ui/main.xrc`):**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<resource>
  <object class="wxFrame" name="main_frame">
    <title>wxDragon XRC Demo</title>
    <size>400,300</size>
    <object class="wxPanel" name="main_panel">
      <object class="wxButton" name="hello_button">
        <label>Click Me!</label>
        <pos>50,50</pos>
      </object>
      <object class="wxTextCtrl" name="input_field">
        <value>Enter text here...</value>
        <pos>50,100</pos>
        <size>200,25</size>
      </object>
      <object class="wxStaticText" name="status_label">
        <label>Ready</label>
        <pos>50,150</pos>
      </object>
    </object>
  </object>
</resource>
```

**2. Use the `include_xrc!` macro for type-safe UI:**

```rust
use wxdragon::prelude::*;

// Generate typed UI struct from XRC file
wxdragon::include_xrc!("ui/main.xrc", MyUI);

fn main() {
    wxdragon::main(|_| {
        let ui = MyUI::new(None);

        // Access widgets with full type safety
        let button = &ui.hello_button;      // Button
        let input = &ui.input_field;        // TextCtrl
        let label = &ui.status_label;       // StaticText
        let frame = &ui.main_frame;         // Frame

        // Bind events with closures
        let label_clone = label.clone();
        let input_clone = input.clone();
        button.on_click(move |_| {
            let text = input_clone.get_value();
            label_clone.set_label(&format!("You entered: {}", text));
        });

        frame.show(true);
        frame.centre();
    });
}
```

**Benefits of XRC approach:**
- **Visual Design** - Use GUI designers for rapid prototyping
- **Type Safety** - Compile-time checking of widget names and types
- **Clean Separation** - UI layout separate from application logic
- **Professional Workflows** - Integrate with existing design tools

## Platform Support

| Platform | Status | Notes |
|----------|--------|-------|
| **Windows** | ✅ Full Support | Native Win32 controls |
| **macOS** | ✅ Full Support | Native Cocoa integration |
| **Linux** | ✅ Full Support | GTK+ backend |

Cross-compilation is supported, including building Windows executables from macOS.

## Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites

**All Platforms:**
- Rust (latest stable)
- CMake
- C++ compiler

**Linux Additional Requirements:**
```bash
# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt-get install libclang-dev pkg-config libgtk-3-dev libpng-dev libjpeg-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev libxkbcommon-dev libexpat1-dev libtiff-dev

# Fedora/RHEL
sudo dnf install clang-devel pkg-config gtk3-devel libpng-devel libjpeg-devel mesa-libGL-devel mesa-libGLU-devel libxkbcommon-devel expat-devel libtiff-devel
```

**Windows Additional Requirements:**
- Visual Studio Build Tools or Visual Studio with C++ support
- Windows SDK
- Ninja build system: `winget install --id=Ninja-build.Ninja -e`
- **[REQUIRED] WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT toolchain** (must match the version used for prebuilt wxWidgets libraries)

> ⚠️ **Important:** You must use the exact same MinGW/WinLibs GCC version as the prebuilt wxWidgets libraries (GCC 15.1.0 UCRT, WinLibs). Mismatched toolchains will cause linker errors for C++ symbols. Download from: https://github.com/brechtsanders/winlibs_mingw/releases/tag/15.1.0posix-13.0.0-ucrt-r2

**Install WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT:**
1. Download the release from [WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT](https://github.com/brechtsanders/winlibs_mingw/releases/tag/15.1.0posix-13.0.0-ucrt-r2)
2. Extract to `C:\mingw64` (or another directory)
3. Add `C:\mingw64\mingw64\bin` to your `PATH`
4. Set the Rust linker:
   ```bash
   setx CARGO_TARGET_X86_64_PC_WINDOWS_GNU_LINKER "C:\mingw64\mingw64\bin\gcc.exe"
   ```

### Building Your Project

```bash
# Clone and build
cargo new my-gui-app
cd my-gui-app

# Add wxdragon to Cargo.toml
cargo add wxdragon

# Build (wxWidgets will be downloaded and built automatically)
cargo build

# Run
cargo run
```

wxDragon automatically downloads and builds wxWidgets during the first compilation. No manual wxWidgets installation required!

### Cross-Compilation (macOS → Windows)

> ⚠️ **Important:** For cross-compilation, you must use the same WinLibs GCC version as the prebuilt wxWidgets libraries. Install it via Homebrew or download the matching version manually if needed.

```bash
# Install MinGW-w64 toolchain (Homebrew may not always match the required version)
brew install mingw-w64
# Or download and use WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT manually for ABI compatibility
# Add Windows target
rustup target add x86_64-pc-windows-gnu
# Build for Windows
cargo build --target=x86_64-pc-windows-gnu --release
```

> If you encounter linker errors for C++ symbols, double-check that your MinGW/WinLibs GCC version matches the prebuilt wxWidgets libraries exactly.

## Rich Widget Ecosystem

wxDragon provides comprehensive widget support including:

- **Basic Controls** - Buttons, text fields, checkboxes, sliders, progress bars
- **Advanced Input** - Date pickers, color pickers, rich text editors, search controls
- **Data Display** - Lists, trees, tables, data views with sorting and filtering
- **Layout Management** - Flexible sizers, notebooks, splitters, scrollable containers
- **Menus & Toolbars** - Full menu system with accelerators and toolbar support
- **Dialogs** - File choosers, message boxes, custom dialogs
- **Media & Graphics** - Image display, animations, media playback, drawing contexts

## Examples

Explore the `examples/` directory for comprehensive demonstrations:

- **Simple** - Basic window and controls
- **Gallery** - Showcase of all available widgets
- **Custom Widgets** - Creating your own controls
- **Media Player** - Audio/video playback application
- **Data Views** - Complex data display and editing

```bash
# Run the gallery to see all widgets in action
cargo run -p gallery
```

## Getting Help

- **Documentation** - [API Documentation](https://docs.rs/wxdragon)
- **Examples** - Browse the `examples/` directory
- **Issues** - [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/AllenDang/wxDragon/issues)

## License

wxDragon is dual-licensed under Apache 2.0 and MIT licenses, giving you flexibility in how you use it in your projects.

Commit message:

Fix(ci): correct wxWidgets packaging logic in build workflow

README.md, after:

# wxDragon - Cross-Platform Native GUI for Rust

**wxDragon** brings the power of wxWidgets to Rust, enabling you to build beautiful, native desktop applications that run seamlessly across Windows, macOS, and Linux. With wxDragon, your applications will look and feel native on every platform while maintaining a single Rust codebase.

## Why Choose wxDragon?

🎯 **Native Look & Feel** - Your apps integrate perfectly with each operating system's design language  
🚀 **Single Codebase** - Write once, run everywhere with true cross-platform compatibility  
🛡️ **Memory Safe** - All the safety guarantees of Rust with the mature wxWidgets foundation  
⚡ **High Performance** - Direct access to native GUI components with minimal overhead  
🎨 **Rich Widget Set** - Comprehensive collection of native controls and layouts  
🔧 **Two Development Styles** - Choose between programmatic creation or visual XRC design

## Screenshots

![Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AllenDang/wxDragon/refs/heads/main/asset/screenshot.png)

![CustomWidgets](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AllenDang/wxDragon/refs/heads/main/asset/custom_widget.gif)

## Quick Start

Add wxDragon to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
wxdragon = "*"
```

### Simple Example

```rust
use wxdragon::prelude::*;

fn main() {
    wxdragon::main(|_| {
        let frame = Frame::builder()
            .with_title("Hello, World!")
            .with_size(Size::new(300, 200))
            .build();

        let sizer = BoxSizer::builder(Orientation::Vertical).build();

        let button = Button::builder(&frame).with_label("Click me").build();

        button.on_click(|_| {
            println!("Button clicked");
        });

        sizer.add(
            &button,
            1,
            SizerFlag::AlignCenterHorizontal | SizerFlag::AlignCenterVertical,
            0,
        );

        frame.set_sizer(sizer, true);
        frame.show(true);
        frame.centre();
    });
}
```

## Visual UI Design with XRC

For complex interfaces, wxDragon supports XRC (XML Resource) files with compile-time type safety. Design your UI visually with tools like [wxFormBuilder](https://github.com/wxFormBuilder/wxFormBuilder), then load it seamlessly into Rust.

**1. Design your UI (`ui/main.xrc`):**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<resource>
  <object class="wxFrame" name="main_frame">
    <title>wxDragon XRC Demo</title>
    <size>400,300</size>
    <object class="wxPanel" name="main_panel">
      <object class="wxButton" name="hello_button">
        <label>Click Me!</label>
        <pos>50,50</pos>
      </object>
      <object class="wxTextCtrl" name="input_field">
        <value>Enter text here...</value>
        <pos>50,100</pos>
        <size>200,25</size>
      </object>
      <object class="wxStaticText" name="status_label">
        <label>Ready</label>
        <pos>50,150</pos>
      </object>
    </object>
  </object>
</resource>
```

**2. Use the `include_xrc!` macro for type-safe UI:**

```rust
use wxdragon::prelude::*;

// Generate typed UI struct from XRC file
wxdragon::include_xrc!("ui/main.xrc", MyUI);

fn main() {
    wxdragon::main(|_| {
        let ui = MyUI::new(None);

        // Access widgets with full type safety
        let button = &ui.hello_button;      // Button
        let input = &ui.input_field;        // TextCtrl
        let label = &ui.status_label;       // StaticText
        let frame = &ui.main_frame;         // Frame

        // Bind events with closures
        let label_clone = label.clone();
        let input_clone = input.clone();
        button.on_click(move |_| {
            let text = input_clone.get_value();
            label_clone.set_label(&format!("You entered: {}", text));
        });

        frame.show(true);
        frame.centre();
    });
}
```

**Benefits of XRC approach:**
- **Visual Design** - Use GUI designers for rapid prototyping
- **Type Safety** - Compile-time checking of widget names and types
- **Clean Separation** - UI layout separate from application logic
- **Professional Workflows** - Integrate with existing design tools

## Platform Support

| Platform | Status | Notes |
|----------|--------|-------|
| **Windows** | ✅ Full Support | Native Win32 controls |
| **macOS** | ✅ Full Support | Native Cocoa integration |
| **Linux** | ✅ Full Support | GTK+ backend |

Cross-compilation is supported, including building Windows executables from macOS.

## Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites

**All Platforms:**
- Rust (latest stable)
- CMake
- C++ compiler

**Linux Additional Requirements:**
```bash
# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt-get install libclang-dev pkg-config libgtk-3-dev libpng-dev libjpeg-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev libxkbcommon-dev libexpat1-dev libtiff-dev

# Fedora/RHEL
sudo dnf install clang-devel pkg-config gtk3-devel libpng-devel libjpeg-devel mesa-libGL-devel mesa-libGLU-devel libxkbcommon-devel expat-devel libtiff-devel
```

**Windows Additional Requirements:**
- Visual Studio Build Tools or Visual Studio with C++ support
- Windows SDK
- Ninja build system: `winget install --id=Ninja-build.Ninja -e`
- **[REQUIRED for MinGW builds] WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT toolchain** (must match the version used for prebuilt wxWidgets libraries)

> ⚠️ **Important:** You must use the exact same MinGW/WinLibs GCC version as the prebuilt wxWidgets libraries (GCC 15.1.0 UCRT, WinLibs) for MinGW builds. Mismatched toolchains will cause linker errors for C++ symbols. Download from: https://github.com/brechtsanders/winlibs_mingw/releases/tag/15.1.0posix-13.0.0-ucrt-r2

**Install WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT (for MinGW builds):**
1. Download the release from [WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT](https://github.com/brechtsanders/winlibs_mingw/releases/tag/15.1.0posix-13.0.0-ucrt-r2)
2. Extract to `C:\mingw64` (or another directory)
3. Add `C:\mingw64\mingw64\bin` to your `PATH`
4. Set the Rust linker:
   ```bash
   setx CARGO_TARGET_X86_64_PC_WINDOWS_GNU_LINKER "C:\mingw64\mingw64\bin\gcc.exe"
   ```

> **Note:**
> When building on Windows with MinGW/WinLibs, always use a regular Windows shell (such as `cmd.exe` or PowerShell), **not** an MSYS2 shell. Using MSYS2 may cause your build to use the wrong GCC toolchain, resulting in linker errors due to ABI mismatches.
>
> The wxDragon CI is configured to use WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT in a Windows shell for all Windows GNU builds, ensuring ABI compatibility with the prebuilt wxWidgets libraries.

### Building with MSVC on Windows

**Prerequisites:**
- Visual Studio 2019 or later (Community/Professional/Build Tools)
- Windows 10 or 11 SDK
- CMake

**Instructions:**
1. Open a "x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2019/2022" (or use the Developer PowerShell)
2. Ensure `cl.exe` and `cmake.exe` are in your `PATH`
3. Build your project:
   ```bash
   cargo build
   ```

> MSVC builds do **not** require the WinLibs toolchain. wxDragon will automatically use the correct prebuilt wxWidgets libraries for MSVC.

### Building Your Project

```bash
# Clone and build
cargo new my-gui-app
cd my-gui-app

# Add wxdragon to Cargo.toml
cargo add wxdragon

# Build (wxWidgets will be downloaded and built automatically)
cargo build

# Run
cargo run
```

wxDragon automatically downloads and builds wxWidgets during the first compilation. No manual wxWidgets installation required!

### Cross-Compilation (macOS → Windows)

> ⚠️ **Important:** For cross-compilation, you must use the same WinLibs GCC version as the prebuilt wxWidgets libraries. Install it via Homebrew or download the matching version manually if needed.

```bash
# Install MinGW-w64 toolchain (Homebrew may not always match the required version)
brew install mingw-w64
# Or download and use WinLibs GCC 15.1.0 UCRT manually for ABI compatibility
# Add Windows target
rustup target add x86_64-pc-windows-gnu
# Build for Windows
cargo build --target=x86_64-pc-windows-gnu --release
```

> If you encounter linker errors for C++ symbols, double-check that your MinGW/WinLibs GCC version matches the prebuilt wxWidgets libraries exactly.

## Rich Widget Ecosystem

wxDragon provides comprehensive widget support including:

- **Basic Controls** - Buttons, text fields, checkboxes, sliders, progress bars
- **Advanced Input** - Date pickers, color pickers, rich text editors, search controls
- **Data Display** - Lists, trees, tables, data views with sorting and filtering
- **Layout Management** - Flexible sizers, notebooks, splitters, scrollable containers
- **Menus & Toolbars** - Full menu system with accelerators and toolbar support
- **Dialogs** - File choosers, message boxes, custom dialogs
- **Media & Graphics** - Image display, animations, media playback, drawing contexts

## Examples

Explore the `examples/` directory for comprehensive demonstrations:

- **Simple** - Basic window and controls
- **Gallery** - Showcase of all available widgets
- **Custom Widgets** - Creating your own controls
- **Media Player** - Audio/video playback application
- **Data Views** - Complex data display and editing

```bash
# Run the gallery to see all widgets in action
cargo run -p gallery
```

## Getting Help

- **Documentation** - [API Documentation](https://docs.rs/wxdragon)
- **Examples** - Browse the `examples/` directory
- **Issues** - [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/AllenDang/wxDragon/issues)

## License

wxDragon is dual-licensed under Apache 2.0 and MIT licenses, giving you flexibility in how you use it in your projects.
